All right, you guys.
We're going to get going.
Try to get everyone out of here on time.
So my name is Mike Stern.
I am a user experience
evangelist with Apple.
And thanks for sticking through to
the end of the day to watch my talk.
So today I want to talk to
you about UI design for games.
And the session of the
title is iOS 7 Games.
And we'll talk a little bit about iOS 7.
But for a large part of this
presentation here in the beginning,
I'm just going to talk
about general UI advice.
Stuff that was relevant at
any point in time for iOS.
Now, as an evangelist,
I spent a lot of time working with
developers of both games and apps.
And in particular,
when I talk to game developers,
I'm always really interested to
look out for how they take the
theme of the game that they have,
the motif, the style of it,
and apply it to solving interaction
design problems for their game
and all the different screens
that people are going to see.
It's always really surprising
and interesting to see what
kind of things result from that.
Olo is a really good example of this.
When you go to the menu,
you simply tap anywhere on the screen and
the board splits open to reveal the menu.
You can pinch it, close,
or tap to close it again.
That's a completely non-standard
interaction design paradigm.
We don't have anything like that
anywhere else for our built-in apps,
let's say.
But it's totally
appropriate for this game.
It makes perfect sense for the
way the game board is designed.
It's very clever, it's really unique,
and it works well.
And they take the style of that game and
they apply it to every screen that you're
going to see when you play the game.
Let's look at another example.
This is a game called Beat Sneak.
It has a very unique and
coherent design motif to it.
And that style is applied
to all sorts of screens,
from the pause screen to
the level chooser and every
other screen that you'll see.
And this kind of heavy UI customization
for games is something that
at Apple we really appreciate.
It's great.
It brings a lot of
diversity to the platform,
a lot of variety and
creativity to that experience.
So we totally encourage that.
Here's another example.
This is Badland.
Won an ADA, an Apple Design Award,
earlier this year.
And part of the reason
why it did is because,
as you can see, the artwork for this
game is totally stunning.
And they take that artwork,
they take that great
attention to visual detail,
and they apply it to
everything in the game.
The pause screen and the level chooser.
Here's another example,
completely different style, yet again,
this is Ridiculous Fishing,
also an ADA winner.
And again, you can see how thoroughly
the UI has been customized.
These games,
the games that you guys make,
they should be completely
immersive experiences.
They should be worlds
that people can escape to,
get lost in.
But in order for that to happen,
the experience must be consistent.
So when we complete a
level in Tiny Wings,
you expect to see something
that looks like this.
Not something that looks like that.
That just looks like it's not finished,
even though those are totally
standard UI kit elements
that have been placed here.
But even if your game
looks totally custom,
it should behave in a way that
matches other iOS apps and games.
It's really important.
So for example,
even if you have a button that
looks like a plank of wood,
it should still behave like
any other button does on iOS.
So when you press it,
it should highlight immediately.
And when you release your finger or
slide your finger off of the button,
it should go back to its normal,
non-highlighted state.
[ Transcript missing ]
Or when you press the button and
you slide your finger off of it,
it'll stay in its active state.
That's a problem because you feel like
you're trapped into pressing this button.
How do you bail out?
How do you escape?
How do you not press this
button at this point?
So these kind of inconsistent
interaction behaviors,
like just with this button,
this is just one small
example of a larger thing,
which is that if you
don't match iOS behaviors,
people are going to get confused
and frustrated using your game.
[ Transcript missing ]
: I'm here today to provide
some basic guidance to you guys
about how to make this happen.
Much of this guidance is tailored
to you as game developers,
but to be honest,
I've provided this type of advice
to non-game app developers as well.
This advice applies to any iOS app,
whether it's a game or not.
The purpose of matching standard
iOS conventions is that it's going
to make your game more intuitive.
And the purpose of that is the
more intuitive your game is,
the more enjoyable it's
going to be to play.
Which is really what it's all about,
right?
This simple thing.
This is ultimately the
goal for all of us,
for all of you in this room.
To maximize enjoyment.
So let's dive in.
Talk about some examples of how to make
the UI for your games really great.
So the first and most important thing,
and Alan actually talked about this
quite a bit in the previous discussion.
John talked about this
earlier this morning.
But I'm just going to reiterate
this because it's so important.
That is you're designing for touch.
iOS is not a desktop where you're
using a keyboard or trackpad or a
mouse to interact with the game.
And it's not a gaming console
where you're dependent upon
using a game controller.
And we see lots of games that
try to recreate desktop or gaming
console mechanics by superimposing
buttons over the game or a D-pad.
And typically this
doesn't work very well.
It's not necessary.
Adding these elements gets in the
way of your ability to see the game.
And unlike physical buttons,
unlike a physical D-pad,
you can't feel when your
finger is over the button or
the D-pad and when it's not.
So as much as possible,
you want to design for
direct manipulation.
So for example,
if we want to take this paddle here and
move it to the right side of the screen,
we simply drag it to
where we want it to go to.
Or we tap a location on the screen.
and have it just go there.
We use the movement of the device
to control things in the interface.
By the way,
I just want to take a quick moment.
You're going to see a lot of this game.
It's not a real game.
I designed it for today's presentation.
It's called Paddlemania 3000.
It's not coming to an app store near you.
All right, let's keep going.
So, as you know,
we now have the ability to
connect to game controllers.
And that's great for
controlling gameplay,
but avoid forcing people to interact
with the UI using a game controller.
It's often not going to be
clear what button does what.
Which of these physical buttons
relates to which button on screen.
Do these buttons quit and resume?
Are these buttons?
No one knows.
In fact, people may accidentally press
those buttons without realizing
that they actually will either
quit the game or resume gameplay.
If you want to quit the
game or resume gameplay,
if you want to press one of
those buttons on the screen,
it's much, much easier to just press one
of those buttons on the screen.
[ Transcript missing ]
It's much easier to just press the thing
that you're interested in pressing.
So always go for direct manipulation.
Always make sure that the
touchscreen experience is
really great and at the center.
Let's move on to gestures.
Gestures are the primary way that
we interact with everything on iOS.
And to use an iOS device,
all you really need to know are a half
dozen really simple gestures like tap,
pan, swipe, pinch, rotate, long press.
And these gestures work
because they're intuitive.
And so many of the apps that we interact
with on a daily basis support these
gestures in a very consistent way.
So it's all become very deeply ingrained.
It's all very intuitive.
Not that much to remember.
So with that in mind,
here's a few tips about how
to use gestures successfully.
First and foremost,
match iOS behavior and performance.
This is a big one.
I can't stress this enough.
When basic gestures like pinching
and dragging don't work exactly
like they do in other iOS apps,
we start to feel like
something isn't quite right.
So for example--
In a second,
I'm going to drag this paddle
over to the right-hand side.
And as I do so,
my expectation is that it's going to
stay directly underneath my finger.
If it doesn't do that,
it undermines that sense
of direct manipulation.
I don't feel like I'm actually
dragging the paddle anywhere.
Similarly,
if I do exactly the same thing and
it takes a while for the paddle
to go to where I want it to go,
it also undermines direct manipulation,
makes the game or the
app feel really sluggish.
It's a bad performance.
You want to make sure that touch
interactions are really responsive.
Next up, we want to avoid remapping.
So this is really jarring.
When an app or a game has a gesture,
uses a standard gesture
to do an uncommon thing.
So for example,
we understand that pinching
is used to scale objects.
So it would be strange if a simple tap
was how we zoomed in and zoomed out.
Next up, prefer gestures to buttons.
So don't use buttons for interactions
which could be more intuitively
performed using a gesture.
So for example, scrolling.
You don't need up and
down buttons to scroll.
It's much easier to just
swipe on the screen to scroll.
Consider plus and minus
buttons for zooming.
You see this every once in a while.
Explicit controls for zooming
are typically not necessary.
: I'm going to go ahead
and start the presentation.
No matter how your game looks,
I'm going to kind of repeat myself here,
but it's important.
UI elements should function in
intuitive and predictable ways,
meaning they should match,
they should be consistent
with how iOS controls behave.
So if you have things like
buttons or scroll views or alerts,
you want to make sure that you're doing
a good job recreating the expected
behaviors that players of your game have.
So let's talk about six different
types of controls and views
that are really commonplace.
And I want to start
with the most basic one,
the most common UI element,
which is a button.
Now, this is going to sound really
basic and at the risk of
insulting everyone's intelligence,
I'm just going to put it out there
that it's really a lot easier to press
a big button than a small button.
I know, it's very profound.
Based on our experience
and extensive testing,
we've determined that you want to
make sure that a button is at least
44 points tall and 44 points wide.
If it's any smaller than that,
there's a high likelihood that
your finger is going to be
completely covering the button.
So you're not going to be able to target
it accurately and you're not going to
know if you pressed the right button.
Now this play button, this is really big.
So it's easy,
super easy to target it accurately.
And when we press it,
we know that we've pressed it
because it has a very clear
and obvious highlight state.
Clear and obvious highlight states
are not to be taken lightly.
These are really important because,
again, it's a touchscreen device.
There could be a lot of things around it.
And you want to make sure that people
know that they pressed the right thing.
Now here we have a much smaller button.
And if we were to use the
same highlight state for that,
you could see there's a bit of a problem.
It's too small.
The finger could be covering
most or all of that button.
So that's a problem.
The same highlight state that
works for a large control doesn't
work so well for a small control.
So in these situations,
consider having a highlight state
that is extraordinarily obvious and
is expanded beyond the bounds of
the button artwork so that you know
even if your finger is completely
covering the button as you press it,
you're going to get that instantaneous
confirmation that you pressed the
thing that you had intended to press.
So let's move on to alerts.
Now, with alerts,
when you give people choices,
it's really important that the
options that you're presenting
to them make it obvious what the
outcome of those actions will be.
So let's say, for example,
in Paddlemania 3000,
we've earned this Mega Paddle upgrade,
or we're asked for confirmation if we
want to buy this Mega Paddle upgrade,
and the options that are
presented to me are no or yes.
Well, that's okay.
That's not terrible.
I can read the question,
sort of understand what those
potential answers are going to be.
But it's not a great design.
A much better design would be
to replace those labels with
something more descriptive.
So in this case,
this is a much better design.
The options for action
are much more clear.
You want to try to figure out
how you can use the labels of the
buttons that you're presenting to
people in such a way that they're
reinforcing the way you've phrased
the question that you've asked them.
So here we see that we're being
asked if we want to buy something
and then the button label is buy.
So I don't have to second guess or
do any kind of interpretation to know
which option is going to do which thing.
Also, the order that you show buttons
in is incredibly important.
On iOS, the button on the right
is the affirmative action.
We're going to answer the
question by saying yes.
It's also typically the default action,
the most likely one.
But there is a big exception to this.
If the default action or the affirmative
action is also a destructive action,
meaning it's going to throw away data
or throw away your progress in the game,
you want to make sure that it's
not on the right-hand side.
A lot of people will just press the
option on the right because they trust
it's the thing that they're going
to want to do or the safest thing.
So you want to move it and put
it over on the left-hand side.
Also, the design of the button
is really important.
The design of the button can help to
suggest which option is the default one,
the one that you as the game developer
are encouraging people to press.
Right now, or previously,
those buttons were exactly the same.
These are much better button
designs because the one on
the right is so much stronger.
It seems like it's the one
that people should select.
The best alerts are really
succinct but descriptive.
So this is a good alert.
Game's over.
That's all I need to say to people.
And the buttons are also really succinct.
Go to the menu.
Play again.
It's perfectly acceptable
to use sentence fragments.
You're not trying to
write war and peace here.
Long messages like this
are tedious to read.
People want to play your game.
Reading a lot of text and alerts
and other parts of the UI will
prevent them from doing that.
So it's not a very good experience.
You want to offer choices
that are relevant to people,
match the things that they want to do.
So here, the game's ended.
I can go to the menu or I can play again.
Makes perfect sense.
If we presented these options,
it wouldn't be what I wanted to do.
So this is not a very good experience.
And make sure that you use labels
that people really understand easily.
Menu, play again, totally get it.
Those are really easy
to understand labels.
Now if I had some labels that
matched the theme of the game,
which is this futuristic theme,
it might match that theme,
but it makes no sense whatsoever.
It would take a lot of interpretation
to understand what's being said here.
You also want to make sure not
to give people too many choices.
You ask a simple question and you give
people two very clearly distinct options,
two very different options.
If you just put a third option in there,
all of a sudden you wind up
having to think a lot more
about what's being asked of you.
It's really going to slow you down
and be hard for you to proceed.
And just as important,
having too few options
can be really frustrating.
If people feel like they're railroaded
into a certain course of action,
they're going to feel
limited and frustrated.
So we've unlocked this new paddle
and I only have one option.
I have to upgrade.
It's not so good.
This is a much better UI because
I'm being given a choice.
Also, some messages do not
require user confirmation.
I won.
I got it.
OK.
I'm likely to be concentrating
and looking at the screen
at this very point in time,
right after I finished a level.
So I'll see that I won.
I know it.
Also, avoid showing multiple alerts or
dialogues at one point in time.
So here we're on a pause screen,
and I'm going to press
the restart button,
and I'm going to be shown another alert,
which asks me,
am I sure I want to restart?
And as I talked about before,
that's actually kind of a good thing.
You want to make sure if someone
pressed that button accidentally,
they're going to lose all the
progress that they made in the game.
So you want to be sure
they want to restart.
But if you do that by just
layering on top another alert,
I don't know why,
but I see this all the time in games,
you can wind up having five or more
options presented at one point in time.
And here we see restart twice,
and it can be confusing for people
which one they're supposed to press.
So I'm going to press restart,
and restart and play
there in the background,
they have the same appearance.
They have the same default appearance.
[ Transcript missing ]
Never, ever,
ever show a close button on an alert.
This is totally unnecessary.
For one thing, usually in an alert,
one of the buttons is actually
just going to close it.
In fact, sorry,
all of the buttons in the alert
are going to close the alert.
So you don't need to show a close button.
It's ambiguous.
No one's going to know what's going to
happen if they just close the alert.
Okay, let's talk about scroll
views a little more.
So earlier I talked about the
importance of using gestures and
not buttons for scroll views.
I've actually used a lot of games
that show a scroll bar on the
right hand side and sometimes that
scroll bar looks big enough and it
looks like I can interact with it.
But if you go and you press
your finger on the scroll
thumb and try to drag it down,
you realize that it's
actually not a control.
Or if it was a control,
it wouldn't work very well.
It would be too coarse of an
adjustment and the list would scroll
way too quickly or way too slowly.
Now, scroll bars, there's a reason why we
don't have them in iOS.
For regular UIKit apps,
they don't work well.
Now I think the reason why people
show scroll bars is because they want
to tell players of the game or users
of the app that they can scroll,
that there's more stuff below.
And I think that's understandable,
but luckily there's a
few solutions for that.
So the first one is you can quickly
flash a scroll bar when you come
to a screen that has a scroll view.
Or when you press anywhere on the screen,
you show that scroll bar.
And that's what we do
in a lot of our apps.
Or you can adjust the spacing of the
items in the scroll list so that the
last thing is partially off screen.
And because of that,
you imagine that there's more,
and you intuitively know how to see
the rest of the stuff in that list.
Similar to that,
you can fade out the scroll
view at the very bottom.
It's very similar to
the previous technique.
It lets you know that there's
going to be something else
beyond the bottom of the screen.
Next up, let's talk about popovers.
So popovers are these transient
views that we use to display
additional information or controls.
[ Transcript missing ]
That arrow is very important.
It makes it clear what
the popover relates to.
So with that in mind,
it's pretty important that the arrow is
pointing at the thing that it relates to,
not close to the thing
that it relates to.
I'm going to show you a little
bit about the UI design.
[ Transcript missing ]
So now we know that if we press
about or help or top scores or store,
it's not going to give us the about
popover or take us to help or show
us the top scores or go to the store.
It's just going to close the popover.
[ Transcript missing ]
And then press it again
and press it again.
It shouldn't just make new
instantiations of the popover.
Try this on your favorite game.
You may find that it does exactly this.
Obviously,
the problem with this is you don't need
multiple instances of this popover.
And you're going to have to literally
tap outside of it multiple times
to close the popover or all the
popovers that you've created.
It's terrible.
And also, one more thing,
you do not need a close
button in a popover.
As I said before,
tapping anywhere outside of
the popover should dismiss it,
or even oftentimes tapping
something inside of the
popover should also dismiss it.
Let's move on to page controls.
So page controls are
used widely in games.
See them all the time for
in-app purchase screens,
or level choosers,
or instruction screens.
But many times, of course,
they're not actual UI kit page controls,
but rather a reproduction of one.
They're not a very good
reproduction either.
If you're going to
reproduce this control,
you want to pay attention to the details
of how it works and get it right.
So here's some important
ones to keep in mind.
Page control is all about swiping.
You do not need the
arrows for page control.
It's not necessary to do that.
So get rid of them.
Awesome flame transition.
So one reason I think that
people add these arrows is
because they want to tell people,
you know,
you can increment one at a time.
But you don't really need that.
In fact,
you can press on either side of those
dots to go to the next or previous thing,
item.
And make sure that you accurately
reproduce the swiping behavior.
So there, I just grabbed the next item,
I dragged it a little ways,
but I didn't drag it
far enough to select it,
so it moved back.
Didn't change my selection.
That's the correct behavior.
Now, if I drag it a little bit further,
It will snap forward
to the next selection.
That's the correct behavior.
And notice that the thing I was
dragging while my finger was touching
the screen was always staying
directly underneath my finger.
Let's do that again and see what
the wrong behavior looks like.
So I'm going to press my
finger down on the screen.
I'm going to slide it a bit to the left.
Without lifting my finger,
the next item is going to get selected.
This prevents me from
changing my mind mid-course.
It's like the interface is being too
eager to change to the next thing,
and it undermines the sense
of direct manipulation.
Finally, progress indicators.
I know this is what you've
all been waiting for.
So.
No one likes waiting, right?
But it's just a fact of life.
People have to wait sometimes.
When your game makes people wait
for more than a few seconds,
if you're not showing any kind of
feedback that something is occurring,
they're going to begin to
wonder what's going on.
How long are they going
to be waiting for?
Another few seconds?
A couple minutes?
A couple of hours?
Did the game crash?
So here's a couple successful
tips for showing good,
accurate progress feedback.
If people will only be waiting
for a short period of time,
just show a simple activity
indicator like this.
Let them know that something is going on,
something is happening.
But if it's gonna take, oh, and also,
Even if this is kind
of a little bit boring,
honestly, this is much better for a game,
right?
Take this as an opportunity
to entertain people,
to do something kind
of adorable and cute.
or you can take this
time to educate people.
So again, this is the game Badland.
This loading screen is providing tips
and tricks about how to use the game.
So they're making a valuable
use of people's time.
When people are going to be
waiting for longer periods of time,
you want to provide specific
information about how long
something is going to take.
Get creative with your loading screens.
Now this is from Plants vs.
Zombies.
It's totally stylized.
Matches the motif of the game.
Here's a different
example from Cut the Rope.
This is the progress bar that
you see when you're about to
go play a level in the game.
They use this box knife
to cut open the level.
And then when you leave the level,
go back to the main menu,
they tape it back up again.
All right?
It's thematic, it's clever,
and it's informative.
And for tasks that are really
going to take a while to complete,
it's really important to let
people know how long they're going
to be waiting for and to give
them the option of bailing out,
of canceling, not completing the task.
Maybe they don't have
enough time to wait,
or maybe they don't want to
wait for whatever it is that
you're going to be doing.
Give them the option.
Let's switch gears a little bit.
It's also really important to
be self-consistent in your game.
This goes for every
aspect of your design.
So for example,
I recently saw this in a game
where there was a close button.
They were showing this ad,
and there was a close
button to dismiss it.
But every time I saw the ad,
they were picking a different
place for that close button.
It's like they couldn't decide
what the best place was,
so they just decided
to go with all of them,
which made it really
unpredictable and confusing,
because of course,
I wanted to press the close button and
not buy their other game that they make.
Another form of self-consistency
is with iconography.
There's many examples of this,
but I'm just going to call out a few.
So here we have this hand-drawn
border for this button,
and then we have this really
clean geometric shape for the
icon that's inside of that border.
But they don't match each other.
They should either both
be clean and geometric,
or they should both look hand-drawn.
This is a bit of a stretch,
but it's also possible to be
too consistent with yourself.
So if you have an icon for
play that looks too much like
your icon for next level,
it's going to confuse people,
even if the icons have a
slightly different treatment.
A clearer distinction between
the icons is going to be much
easier for people to parse.
Now I really want to switch gears.
So, done talking about matching standard
behavior for iOS apps and games.
I want to talk a little bit specifically
about UI design challenges that
I think are really particular to games.
So when I was preparing the talk,
I started thinking,
one of the most important things
for a game is to be a good teacher.
Now, when someone gets a new game,
they don't know how to play it,
they don't know what
their objectives are,
they have few, if any,
strategies for winning
the game and succeeding.
So think about that.
Be sympathetic.
Give people help getting started.
If they don't get that kind of help,
they're going to get frustrated,
they're going to quit,
and they're going to delete your game,
and you'll never see them again.
There's plenty of games
out there to play.
Now the best tutorials make learning fun.
They're easy to follow,
they provide instructions
about key game mechanics,
and they set a mood and establish a plot.
Plants vs.
Zombies is a game that
I encourage you to look at.
I think they really get it right.
And when you download the game,
the first thing you see is a
choice to go through the tutorial.
You can either skip over this lesson
or go through and play the tutorial.
And that's really important
to give people that option.
It's pretty much impossible
to predict whether someone
has played your game before.
Maybe their buddy had
that game on the iPad.
So he already knows how to play the game.
It's a smart idea to
give people an option.
So let's go through the tutorial.
Now, this tutorial is basically just a
simplified version of this game.
And the approach is great because it's
going to teach beginners in context,
not through an abstraction.
You're told how to perform an action,
and then you're asked to practice it.
And the game confirms each success
in learning about how to play.
It's a positive and it's
a rewarding experience.
And it's fun.
You don't feel like you're learning.
You feel like you're playing the game.
And in Plants vs.
Zombies, there is a lot to teach.
Just getting to know each of
the characters is a pretty
time consuming process.
There's a lot of characters.
There's sunflowers and coins and
shovels and plants that explode
and plants that shoot things.
And of course there's zombies.
And each of these characters
has a different role to play,
has unique capabilities,
has unique vulnerabilities,
has different motivations.
The tutorial uses a technique that we in
the UI world call progressive disclosure.
This is a game that's really simple,
but it's also a game that keeps
people from feeling overwhelmed
at any one point in time.
So characters like this walnut,
they appear one at a time,
and when they're introduced to you,
the game is giving you a brief
description about what that
character's capabilities are.
And when you start playing,
you don't have a whole horde
of zombies coming at you from
all different directions.
Gameplay is initially simplified by
having just one row on the board.
So it's a lot easier to see the
zombies coming at you and deal
with the situation at hand.
Cut the Rope is another good case study.
They use a technique called coaching
tips to explain what the objective is,
deliver candy to Om Nom.
And they use coaching tips to provide
instructions about the game mechanic,
to swipe your finger to cut the rope.
Each new game mechanic is
introduced one at a time,
and each time a coaching
tip is displayed.
Tips are shown before
and during gameplay,
and they also introduce interface
elements at appropriate moments.
You can feel that the onboarding
experience was very well thought through.
Game mechanics, again,
are introduced one at a time.
Gameplay is initially very easy,
so you feel good about your
ability to play the game.
And by completing each level,
you're effectively demonstrating that
you're ready for more instructions
and increasingly difficult challenges.
But most importantly,
you're always learning by playing.
You're always having fun.
By contrast, I've seen way too many games
that do something like this.
This is totally overwhelming.
It's way too much information
to process at one time,
and you're never going to remember
everything which is being told to you.
Another common technique is to display
a series of images with instructions.
And typically these give you way
too much information at once.
There's no way that people are going
to remember all of this information
that you're communicating to them.
And it's overwhelming.
Instead of playing the game,
you're being asked to work.
Just as bad as being overloaded
with too many instructions is
being asked to go through an
elaborate configuration process.
New players do not understand
how your game works,
so it's premature to ask them
questions about how they want to
customize their gaming experience.
Again, the goal of all of you should
be to maximize enjoyment.
If people get excited
about playing your game,
they're going to be inclined to start
customizing it to create a richer
and more personalized experience.
Now, above all,
make sure people's first experience
with your game is amazing.
Whether that experience is a
tutorial or customization even,
or just diving in and playing the game,
your game needs to be fun and
entertaining from the very beginning.
If, on the other hand,
your game is boring or
confusing or overwhelming,
People are going to assume that your game
is boring and confusing and overwhelming.
And rightfully so.
Next up, wait to ask for feedback.
So when you leave here tonight,
imagine that you go to a restaurant,
you're really hungry because
we kept you here way past 6:00,
and you're thirsty.
So you want some food and drink.
You want the waiter to bring you a menu.
But instead he comes over and he says,
hey,
the manager of the restaurant wants us
to have you fill out this survey to tell
you what you think about the restaurant.
Right?
What are you going to say?
Nice silverware?
Nice ambiance?
Nice lighting?
you don't know anything
about the restaurant.
In fact, you're annoyed at being
asked that question.
Right?
Because you're hungry, you're thirsty.
Now I know this is a bit
of a ridiculous example,
but it's totally applicable
for apps and games.
When a game asks players to
provide feedback before they've
really gotten to know the game,
they're not going to write
a very substantive review.
And they're probably going
to be annoyed at being asked
to provide feedback so early.
And it's kind of self-defeating.
You actually want to ask people
for feedback if they've been
playing your game for a while.
Because if they've been
playing your game for a while,
they probably like your game more than
the average person who downloaded it.
Thank you.
And also advertise thoughtfully.
So people who play PaddleMania 3000,
they love PaddleMania 3000.
Call themselves PaddleManiacs.
Great.
I love them.
So, it's understandable that
if I make a new game,
I'm going to want to
advertise that to them.
Do you want to talk to
them about Cosmic Paddle?
They might be interested in that.
But you want to exercise good judgment.
People are going to get annoyed if you
overwhelm your own game's interface
with a bunch of advertisements.
It's going to take them
out of the experience,
and it undermines that
engagement that you're trying
to work so hard to establish.
And also, don't try to trick people
into clicking on ads.
Now, I've seen this a number of times,
and maybe it's just a sheer coincidence.
But I'm looking at a
menu screen like this,
and I'm about to press the Play button.
And right before I do, up pops an ad.
And off to the app store I go.
I don't really want to buy this game,
and it's just totally annoying.
So this is just one example.
There's many others.
But you don't want to
try to trick people.
You don't want to be deceptive.
Respect the people who play your game.
Now Cut the Rope, I think,
does a pretty good job
of advertising to people.
So we're in the level chooser screen,
and over on the left-hand side,
we see these little
things poking out there.
And if we swipe over
to see what those are,
they're ads in the level chooser.
A little unexpected, but OK.
They're innocuous,
and I kind of understand that
they're ads for other games,
and I can choose to tap those or not.
And additionally, on the menu screen,
there's a little ring
there connected to a rope.
And if I pull that down,
I'll see another promotion.
So clearly,
they're not shy about advertising
to the people that play their game,
but they're not trying to deceive people
into pressing one of those advertisements
and purchasing the other games they make.
And also,
it's really important to not cut corners.
You want to have high
quality in your games,
high production value.
A big part of what makes games
great are the awesome graphics,
the beautiful sounds,
But games with really
great source material,
really great artwork and sound
design can be hampered by really
easy to avoid production mistakes.
Here's some quick tips for making sure
that you put your best foot forward.
First up, design for retina displays.
It's really important to use artwork
that's the correct resolution.
It's high resolution.
It looks great on a retina screen.
Low resolution graphics will make
your game look fuzzy or jagged.
Yes, we know that those graphics
take up more space,
but they're worth it.
They show off all the great artistry
and care and time and attention that
went into the design of your game.
Next, don't stretch graphics.
So let's say we have this button
that we designed for our game,
but we have another button
which has a longer title,
so we need it to be wider.
So what do we do?
Well,
if we just stretched it as one piece,
it would look terrible.
The rounding on those corners
doesn't look right at all.
Again,
it's also going to look jagged or blurry.
So what you want to do is
use a three-part image,
meaning you take the left
cap and the right cap,
and you reposition those.
And then you take a
slice from the center,
and you either tile it or you stretch it.
Also, when it comes to video and sound,
timing is everything.
We know when audio is played too early.
or too late.
Make sure that your audio clips are
trimmed so that they can be timed
perfectly to events in the game.
And for background music,
add some variation.
It's okay to loop background music,
but looped music can
get old really quickly.
So it's best to have some variety.
Play different loops for different
levels or different modes of the game.
Okay.
So I've covered a lot
of ground here today,
I think.
But before I go, I, as promised,
want to talk a little bit about iOS 7.
Now, at first blush,
you might believe that the
changes to the look and feel of
iOS 7 don't really affect you.
Maybe you're right.
But I'm not so sure.
So what I want to share with you
are the principles that influenced
and inspired the redesign of iOS 7.
Because in my opinion,
those principles are just as relevant
to all games as they are to all apps.
So what are those principles?
Well, there's really three core ones.
Clarity, deference, and depth.
I'll explain what those are.
So clarity is a really
straightforward concept.
It's just about being clear.
So UI design at its essence is
really just about communication.
So the most successful interface
designs are the ones that are
the easiest to understand.
So a quick example.
Here's weather.
Weather makes it really easy
to understand what the current
weather conditions are.
Deference is about getting
out of people's way.
It's about allowing content
to be front and center.
As much as possible,
the interface should not interfere with
that experience of engaging with content.
It shouldn't cover up visual
content or be too distracting.
So let's look at Mail.
Mail exemplifies this
characteristic of deference.
Photos go edge to edge.
They're big,
so it's easier to see the detail in them.
Text is easy to read,
and if you have a hard time seeing,
you don't have perfect vision,
you can increase the size of
text so it's even more legible.
And the navigation bar at
the top and toolbar at the
bottom are visually subdued,
so they're not trying to compete
with the content for your attention.
In fact,
they kind of blend in to the message,
making the message seem
like it's stretching to the
full height of the screen.
And depth.
Depth is about using layering.
and animation to establish and
reinforce hierarchy within apps
and on the platform as a whole.
It's also about creating a
more profoundly vibrant and
lifelike experience through
how things move in response to
touch or movement of the device.
Now, in my opinion,
I think these principles are just as
relevant to games as they are to any app.
So let's start with clarity.
Clarity is a principle that can be
applied to just about everything
that we've talked about today.
Being internally consistent
helps to provide clarity.
Giving useful and informative
feedback makes your game more
clear about what's going on.
A tutorial that teaches you while
you play your game is far more
clear than learning by seeing
a series of abstract images,
a series of static images.
and low resolution graphics that
make it hard to see the details and
character and background artwork is quite
literally making your game less clear.
The principle of clarity can
be applied beyond what we've
talked about today as well.
So consider the copy that you display
and how you can be more clear with that.
Ask yourself, are you saying too much?
Are you using words
that people understand?
Let's apply clarity to typography.
Is text large enough?
Sometimes I think that game developers
have exceptionally good eyesight,
superhuman eyesight,
because text is always so
incredibly small and hard to read.
Is the font face you're using legible?
It's pretty hard to read.
It's not very clear at all.
It's much easier to read.
And is there sufficient contrast
or visual interference with
background elements that makes
it hard to read the text?
This is much easier to read.
Deference is about getting out of
people's way and allowing their
content to be front and center.
Forcing people through a series of
complicated customization screens
before they're even allowed to play
the game is not very deferential.
If you overlay heads-up displays
or health meters or other status
information over your game,
those elements shouldn't get in
the way of your ability to see
characters and the game environment.
So consider the heads-up
display in Real Racing 3.
They do a really good job
of getting out of your way.
You can see key race information
like the track or your speed,
but it doesn't limit your
field of vision or cover up
the amazing graphics they have.
Being deferential is all about
maximizing the size and prominence
of what's most important to people.
Secondary elements shouldn't
be too distracting.
[ Transcript missing ]
In iOS 7, we use this parallax
effect for the home screen.
I think this effect is
a natural fit for games.
Platformer,
side-scroller games could use parallax
to create a greater sense of depth
between foreground and background layers.
Even my terrible Paddlemania
3000 game is enhanced by that.
And depth also refers to animation.
We use 2 and 1/2D animations for
navigating hierarchical views.
You zoom in and out when going
between the grid view or single
image view in the Photos app.
This helps to establish
and reinforce hierarchy.
There's no reason why that
type of animation wouldn't
work really well for games.
Using zoom animations when going in and
out of a level chooser is an obvious fit.
So that's all I have for you today.
That's all we have for you today.
I want to thank you very much for being
here and encourage you guys to stick
around and share some drinks with us.
We have some refreshments outside.
Thank you very much.
It was a pleasure being here.